So before taking a look at how to modify the "sizes" attribute in your responsive images.
Let's take a look at something in WordPress called $content_width. And $content_width is a global PHP variable that
you define in your theme.
And this variable should define the maximum width of your content.
So here for example, our content width is this DIV here, highlighted here. And this one is 800 pixels,
right?
So WordPress will rely on this $content_width global variable when loading things like iframes.
So I've added a YouTube video here and if you take a look at the width you'll find that it's 500.
And that's because we did not define a $content_width in our theme.
So since our website is responsive and we have these classes here that makes the iframe responsive. So
without these classes, I remove the these stylings, the iframe will look like this. It will be a 500x281
iframe. So to make WordPress load
a iframe that matches the content width, we should define the $content_width global variable in our theme.
So let's go to functions.php.
And all we have to do is, let's check first if the global variable
is not set and it's called
$content_width. We'll just have to define it, right?
So let's say 800.
And let's take a look now at the iframe again. And as you can see the iframe
now, we have a width of 800.
So I know this global variable won't really matter if your website is responsive.
But it's actually required to define it in your theme and we'll actually use it also when we calculate
our "sizes" attribute for responsive images.
So another thing.
Now we have this full width layout, what if we have the other one, the sidebar.
And let's refresh. And now our content width will change, right? Now it will be this with which is 738 as you
can see.
So how do we change the $content_width global variable
dynamically. We can use an action called "template_redirect".
So let's add action. So "template_redirect" will run every time you change your template.
So that's exactly what we need to do. Everytime we change our template we need to recalculate the
$content_width,
right?
So let's define a function called "_themename_content_width" and then inside of this function.
Let's define it. Inside of this function we can access the global $content_width and then do some calculations
and then change this $content_width depending on these calculations.
Right?
So in our case what do we need to do? We need to get the global $post, the post that we are visiting and
we need to check that we are in a single post page. In the post type of post. And if so we need to also
check which layout do we have.
So we need to access our custom fields and if we have the full layout our $content_width will be 800.
And if we have the sidebar layout our $content_width will be 738, right?
So let's write an if condition. "if ( is_single() )".
And also we need to check that we are in the post, post type. So we can access the post type from the
global $post
like so.
And if this condition is met, we need to get the custom field, right?
Let's go to the single.php file. And let's actually copy these.
We'll have to do the same thing.
We'll have to get the lay out of the post so here we can get the ID of the post using post->ID.
So we will get the layout and is_active_sidebar().
And if the layout is "sidebar" but we don't have a sidebar active,
the primary side bar, we will fall back to "full". Eexactly like we did in the single.php. And
then using this $layout variable we can decide what the $content_width will be.
So if layout is "full",
it will be 800.
Otherwise it will be 738.
So let's save now and let's
take a look.
And as you can see our iframe  is 738
now. Let's go back to the post editor
and let's make it "full".
As you can see the iframe is back to 800.
So this is how to set the content width dynamically.
Of course there will be a lot of more cases.
Right now we're checking for the  single blog post only. But there will be a lot of more cases.
Remember we have page templates, we have a page template with a sidebar and a page template with a full
layout. So you can also use template tags like is page_template() and this will check which page template
you're in.
And then you can decide the content width depending on which page template you are in.
But I think you get the idea.
So I'm not gonna do the rest of the cases.
So let's in the next lecture go ahead and modify the "sizes" attribute in our responsive images to match our layout needs.
So see you in the next lecture.